---
layout:   default
class:    markdown
---
Temporary Credentials
=====================

Any client with an `clientId` and an `accessToken` can issue temporary
credentials with a subset of its credentials. Temporary credentials consists of
a `clientId`, `temporaryAccessToken` and a certificate validating these.

Temporary credentials always have an explicit start and expiry date, which can
be up to 31 days apart. A set of temporary credentials cannot be used to issue
new temporary credentials, but they be used to generated signed URLs for
untrusted sources.

A certificate looks as follows and must be base64 encoded and attached to all
requests using hawks `ext´ property.

```js
{
  certificate: {
    version:          1,
    scopes:           ['ScopeA', 'ScopeB'],
    start:            1410399435102,
    expiry:           1410399497349,
    seed:             'KpJvYUNXSYeWqc0vnsAq9wJJgvWv5pTh6IYhd120YZTQ',
    signature:        'Yw1ETAM+6PGA0T65IAEShwyDLDQqw7M8qpFzLpG+Nm8='
  }
}
```

The certificate is always issued by a client, called the issuer, who must
have a `clientId` and an `accessToken`. In the certificate the `version` must
always be `1` (at least for now).

The `scopes` property is a list of scopes the temporary credentials should have
access to, this must be a subset of the scopes the issuer has.
Note, a subset in scope terminology can also be a specialization, for example
if the issuer has the scope `queue:*` the scopes property can have the scope
`queue:get-artifact:*`, because it's a specialization of `queue:*`.

The `start` and `expiry` properties is the validity start and expiration of the
certificate, respectively. Both `start` and `expiry` are in milliseconds since
unix epoch, and these cannot be more than 31 days apart. Notice that it is
allowed to issue temporary credentials that take effect in the future, useful
for delegating access to scheduled tasks.

The `seed` property is a 44 character string of random characters, it used for
construction of the `temporaryAccessToken`, as detailed later. The `signature`
property validates the authenticity of the certificate and is generated as
detailed below.

Signature Generation
--------------------
The signature for a certificate is generated by the issuer, the client that
issues the temporary credentials. The issuer does this by generating a
base64 encoded sha256 HMAC signature of the following string using the
issuers `accessToken`.

```
version:1\n
seed:<seed>\n
start:<start>\n
expiry:<expiry>\n
scopes:\n
<scopes[0]>\n
<scopes[1]>\n
...
<scopes[n]>
```

In the certificate example from previous section the string to sign would be:

```
version:1\n
seed:KpJvYUNXSYeWqc0vnsAq9wJJgvWv5pTh6IYhd120YZTQ\n
start:1410399435102\n
expiry:1410399497349\n
scopes:\n
ScopeA\n
ScopeB
```

An authenticating server will validate the certificate on every request, using
the above signature algorithm.


Construction of `temporaryAccessToken`
--------------------------------------
The `temporaryAccessToken` must also be generated by the issuer, the client
that issues the temporary credentials. The issuer does this by generating an
sha256 HMAC signature of the `seed` from the certificate, signed with the
issuers `accessToken`.

The signature must be encoded using URL-safe base64 encoding without `=`
padding. See [RFC 4648, sec. 5](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4648#section-5)
for details on URL-safe base64. Basically it amounts to replacing `+` with `-`
and replacing `/` with `_`, and then drop `=` padding.

The resulting HMAC signature is the `temporaryAccessToken`, which should be
given to client that will be using the temporary credentials. **Note**, the
`temporaryAccessToken` will be reconstructed on the authenticating server for
each request.


Authenticating with Temporary Credentials
-----------------------------------------
If an issuer have provided you with a set of temporary credentials, that is the
issuers `clientId`, a certificate (base64 encoded), and a
`temporaryAccessToken`, then you can perform request using hawk, by signing your
requests with `clientId` and `temporaryAccessToken`, as well as sending the
certificate along in the `ext` property. Note, the hawk `ext` is covered by the
request HMAC, so you'll need to provided before you sign the request.

**Remark**, it is possible to _restrict authorized scopes_ using the `ext` in
combination with the certificate for a set of temporary credentials. Just merge
the two base64 encoded JSON objects, before base64 encoding and transmission
over the `ext` property.